hi this is a quick lightning talk about
IQs in web browsers in the browser so um
my name is Martina Tai you may know me
everywhere as this sine wave called
Lydell and I'm leading in web browsers
working group the goal of this working
group is to make the web platform the
dürer platform what we mean by that is
to make sure i PFS as a technology as a
set of libraries and solutions tools are
a part of the web stack that web
developers can use to make it at one of
default choices to build a great in web
apps and we do that by creating custom
browser integrations such as browser
extensions we work with browser vendors
directly to integrate ipfs technologies
and to extend existing kpi's create new
api solve performance issues and
generally we try to understand the
existing challenges of ipfs in web
browser context there's more than one
browser context and there are many
challenges in each of them for example
like web RTC does not work in web
workers and it does not work as well for
our use cases in regular web sites most
of you may be familiar if not this is
our browser extension called ipfs
companion it's a browser browser
companion extension to your local IP FS
note if you do not have it go to Firefox
Store or chrome store and install it
from a real Channel there's also like a
better channel we make monthly stable
releases weekly Bettis feel free to try
it there's a lot of GUI that exposed
internal IP FS features but that will be
in the next talk in this talk I want to
focus on things that developers from
this developer meeting may appreciate
and that's like something I called ipfs
path uplift which is a fancy way to say
redirect
just start using content addressing
today if you have building websites make
sure your paths are valid ipfs paths our
browser extension will detect that
validate content ID and make use of
local IP FS note instead of sending
request over HTTP transport and it's how
we do it now in future there will be
other solutions to uplift those paths
for example serviceworker gateways which
were mentioned and we have like a deep
dive today another feature is exposing a
safe subset of ipfs api's on every
website
we got like conservative access controls
those might be annoying at this point
but we want to play it safe
most of api's can be safely scoped per
application so no dialogue is displayed
to user for example multiple file system
is scoped per application in a fashion
similar to service workers generally
it's a living prototype feedback is
welcome go to ipfs companions repository
there's like a dog subdirectory and
there are notes on this new interface
Q&A called samples and stuff like that
you may ask is browser extension all
ipfs in web browsers group is doing now
we are generally tackling a lot of open
problems that J's ipfs and generally
ipfs as a protocol and ecosystem is
facing in the web browser context those
are some of them there's more one that I
want to extremely highlight today is to
move to the base virtual CD version one
encoding and we need that if we want to
be to have a presence in browsers we
need to have a proper way to represent
the authority components so that origin
based security parameter is respected by
the browser's and our Content ID the
root content hash will
the authority component so I hope we'll
move this forward this week we plan to
ship new web UI with companion
what's web you are you ask you will know
about that after next lightning talk
there are multiple like performance
issues strange bugs across different
vendors related to pushing a lot of data
that's what I give us is doing so we are
tracking those down we try to move the
ceiling
on the file size limit it up and we want
to embed jeaious ipfs with the browser
extension it's actually possible right
now you can go to the Preferences and
switch to the embedded node but it's not
that magical experience we all want and
hopefully like David mentioned this
quarter we'll try to address that why I
mentioned it here is that in the browser
extension context we can add additional
we can additional powers to the JS ipfs
those might be new api is like dns
lookups like raw socket API is multicast
dns native protocol handlers and so on
and so forth and we hope that will make
the experience of having one node that
is exposed to all pages even better and
if you are interested in those
challenges or have an idea or your own
challenges in the browser context please
join us on the github there's a metal
repository for like high-level planning
and overview and there's like IRC
channel also we are part of ipfs GUI
working group we interoperate so make
sure to check them also as well and
thank you that's all
[Music]
[Applause]
on the soy sobbing issue as far as the
privacy concerns in correlation given
your unique window ID or generally I'd
give us note and so I think yeah it
could be a solution for using and using
an accommodation with a nonce or HD
wallet we're actually you have a
derivative ID and so I think so every
time you have a new session for a
website or you have a pair wise
association for each ID for each website
you go to like where one domain and it's
I think interesting so generally we are
exposing a subset of like ipfs api's and
one of those api's is like the ID so you
actually have provide a unique
identifier of your note we may provide
kind of sandboxing solutions that you
mentioned like for file systems we do
that we currently for more sensitive
api's we provide a dialogue to the user
that user needs to explicitly approve
this like website to have access to API
and in future we will switch like move
to the direction of sandboxing instead
of like nagging user with additional
questions I just want to mention really
quickly to add some context to the raw
socket API sand stuff like that on
github.com slash Mozilla /lib D Web was
actually working on implanting stuff for
web extensions like raw socket access
like Multi multi casinos right yeah
multi cause for local discovery address
bar control so like we can actually do
the you know schema colon slash slash
like this is all happening right now and
like actually works with like nightly so
like we're you should take a look at
that if you're interested